JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
In four days, we are going to
win the state
of New Hampshire.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
I am very happy to be in the
home of the Steelers.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: As candidates
make their final
push through swing states, we
ask voters in
the battleground of Pennsylvania
whether they
think their vote counts.
Then: desperate for health care.
Six years after the Affordable
Care Act, we
look at one effort to help those
still in
need.
SANDRA COOK, Virginia: There's a
lot of poverty
in this area, and the coal
mines, they went
down, and the jobs have gotten
really bad.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And it's Friday.
Mark Shields and David Brooks
analyze the
last full week of news before
Election Day.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's all about
numbers tonight,
economic and electoral, as the
presidential
contest comes down to the wire.
Lisa Desjardins begins our
coverage, with
just four days to go.
LISA DESJARDINS: The last Friday
of the 2016
race, and the two campaigns are
off to a long
weekend of crisscrossing the
battleground
states.
Donald Trump started in New
Hampshire, where
he's now neck-and-neck with
Hillary Clinton,
hoping to break through her
electoral wall
of usually blue states.
The Granite State last voted
Republican for
president in 2000.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
When you see the rusted out
factories and
empty buildings, just remember
this.
Hillary Clinton's policies and
other's like
her, her friends, did this to
us, all of us.
We will stop the jobs from
leaving New Hampshire.
The theft of American prosperity
will end.
They have taken away our
prosperity.
From now on, it's going to be
America first.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: New Hampshire
has the nation's
lowest unemployment rate, but
Trump moved
on to more likely economic
territory, Ohio
and Pennsylvania.
Meanwhile, some remarkable
fallout involving
words Trump said yesterday.
He told crowds that Hillary
Clinton was likely
to be put on trial for her
actions related
to her foundation and e-mail.
But that was based on a FOX News
report that
has now been scuttled.
Yesterday, FOX News anchor Bret
Baier fully
retracted his story alleging a
likely Clinton
indictment.
He issued this apology:
BRET BAIER, FOX News: It was a
mistake.
And, for that, I'm sorry.
I should have said, they will
continue to
build their case.
Indictment obviously is a very
loaded word.
LISA DESJARDINS: For her part,
Hillary Clinton
focused today on historically
Democratic strongholds,
rekindling her economic message
for middle
and lower classes in Pittsburgh.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: So, I
will do everything
I can to get incomes rising for
hardworking
people.
Whether you work in steel,
whether you work
in a factory, where you're a
machinist, a
nurse, a teacher, a firefighter,
police officer,
whatever you are, you deserve to
be part of
a growing, thriving middle-class
economy.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
LISA DESJARDINS: From there, she
was off to
an afternoon rally in Detroit.
Clinton's lead in Michigan has
narrowed in
recent days.
Meanwhile, President Obama in
North Carolina,
campaigning for Clinton, was
interrupted by
a protester dressed in a
uniform.
After a few minutes of trying to
calm his
crowd, he urged respect.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
We live in a country that
respects free speech.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
BARACK OBAMA: So, second of all,
it looks
like maybe he might have served
in our military.
And we ought to respect that.
LISA DESJARDINS: Tonight,
Clinton is also
hoping to attract voters with
the help of
celebrity supporters, including
a concert
with Jay-Z in Cleveland and a
rally with Stevie
Wonder in Philly.
Both campaigns have packed the
weekend with
events, Trump appealing to white
working-class
voters and Clinton hoping to
boost minority
turnout.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: The
Labor Department reported that
U.S. workers
saw their best pay raises in
seven years last
month in the final jobs report
before the
election.
It found that, for the month of
October, U.S.
employers added a net of 161,000
jobs, rounding
out what observers say are signs
of a resilient
economy.
The unemployment rate improved
by a tenth
of a point, to 4.9 percent.
Guilty verdicts today in a
scandal that shadowed
New Jersey Governor Chris
Christie in his
failed run for president.
A federal jury convicted his
former aides
Bridget Kelly and Bill Baroni of
shutting
down parts of a major bridge in
order to punish
a political opponent.
Afterward, both sides argued
again over whether
Christie himself should have
been charged.
MICHAEL BALDASSARE, Attorney for
Bill Baroni:
One of the things the U.S.
attorneys office
should be ashamed of is where it
decided to
draw the line on who to charge.
They should have had belief in
their own case
to charge powerful people, and
they didn't.
PAUL FISHMAN, U.S. Attorney,
District of New
Jersey: The evidence that we had
that proved
people beyond -- guilty beyond a
reasonable
doubt was sufficient to indict
and convict
Bridget Kelly and Bill Baroni,
and that's
the indictment we asked the
grand jury to
return.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In a statement,
Christie said
again he knew nothing about the
bridge closures
until after the fact.
And he promised to speak out
soon about what
he called -- quote -- "the lies
told by the
media" and in the courtroom.
U.S. intelligence officials say
they have
picked up information that
al-Qaida might
stage attacks here on election
eve.
Reports today said that New
York, Texas and
Virginia were listed as possible
targets.
But officials warn, the
information has not
been corroborated.
Three U.S. military trainers in
Jordan were
killed today outside a military
base.
It happened near the southern
city of Ma'an.
The Americans were fired on as
their car tried
to enter the base.
It is not clear what prompted
the shooting.
U.S. and Jordanian officials say
they are
investigating.
The political purge in Turkey
took another
sharp turn today: Police rounded
up a dozen
top Kurdish lawmakers as part of
what they're
calling terror investigations.
The arrests sparked protests
from Istanbul
to Ankara, and police used
pepper spray and
water cannons on the crowds.
Supporters of the Kurdish
lawmakers called
the arrests political genocide.
MAN (through translator): These
operations
are politically designed by the
state.
As you know, the Parliament was
bypassed after
the coup attempt.
And now the Parliament's
operations have been
officially stopped in illegal
and anti-democratic
way.
The government is trying to
create an authoritarian
Turkey.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hours after the
arrests, a
car bomb killed nine people and
wounded scores
more in the city of Diyarbakir
in the Kurdish
southeast.
The Iraqi military launched a
new assault
into eastern Mosul today,
touching off some
of the fiercest fighting yet.
Tanks blasted Islamic State
positions, and
special forces captured six
districts.
ISIS fought back with rockets,
mortars and
suicide car bombs.
In Indonesia, a mass protest by
hard-line
Muslims turned violent late
today in Jakarta.
At least one person died and
seven were hurt.
An estimated 150,000 people
demanded the city's
Christian governor be arrested
for allegedly
insulting the Koran.
As the day wore on, clashes
broke out, and
police fired tear gas and water
cannons.
The besieged president of South
Korea made
an emotional apology today for
an influence-peddling
scandal.
It stems from allegations that
Park Geun-hye
let a close confidante meddle in
state affairs.
On national television, Park
called the scandal
heartbreaking and said she
accepts responsibility,
while denying some of the
allegations.
Park's approval rating has
fallen to 5 percent.
She's under mounting pressure to
resign.
Back in this country, a federal
jury today
has found a "Rolling Stone"
magazine story
about a gang rape defamed an
administrator
at the University of Virginia.
The story has since been
discredited.
The official sued the magazine,
its publisher
and the reporter.
The jury now decides whether to
award her
$7.5 million in damages.
Harvard University has canceled
the rest of
its men's soccer season over
sexual comments
about the women's soccer team.
An investigation found that
members of the
men's squad routinely rated
female players
on appearance and made lewd
comments.
They called it the scouting
report and put
it online.
Officials say it's been going on
since at
least 2012.
Wall Street stumbled for a ninth
day, its
longest losing streak since
1980.
Analysts cited jitters over
Donald Trump's
economic policies, as he makes
late gains
in the presidential race.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 42 points
to close at 17888.
The Nasdaq fell 12, and the S&P
500 slipped
one.
And Chicago turned out today to
celebrate
the Cubs' first World Series
since 1908.
The Chicago River was dyed blue
in their honor,
and hundreds of thousands
cheered the team.
The players paraded from Wrigley
Field to
a rally downtown.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
strategists
weigh in on what each campaign
needs to do
from now to the election; how
voters in the
swing state of Pennsylvania view
the integrity
of the election; a closer look
at the people
with few places to turn for
health care coverage
in this country; and much more.
With 72 hours to go, the
presidential candidates
are making their final pitch to
voters this
weekend.
To size up the race I'm joined
by two campaign
veterans.
Jim Messina is the CEO of The
Messina Group.
He served as campaign manager
for President
Obama in 2012.
And Matthew Dowd, former chief
strategist
for George W. Bush in 2004, he's
now a political
analyst for ABC News.
And we welcome both of you to
the program.
So, I'm going to ask you both to
put yourself
in the shoes of the folks who
are running
the Clinton and Trump campaigns
this year.
Jim Messina, what are you
thinking right now?
What are you looking at?
JIM MESSINA, Former Obama
Campaign Manager:
Well, you have about 102 hours
before the
polls close, Judy.
And so you're thinking about two
things, first
of all, getting out your vote,
making sure
that what we call the sporadic
voters, the
people who may not vote in this
election,
absolutely have to vote.
And that's where you have spent
the last two
years building field and data
and resources
to target those people and make
sure you can
turn out your vote.
And the second, equally crucial
thing is,
we're still sitting here with
about 5 percent
of America, maybe 7 percent, who
is undecided.
And our research shows clearly
that those
people are influenced by what
their friends
and family members are saying.
So, you're targeting those
voters with a variety
of different techniques to try
to move your
message in these last 102 hours.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Matthew Dowd, so,
you're running
one of these campaigns.
What are you thinking?
MATTHEW DOWD, Former Bush
Campaign Strategist:
Well, I think, when you look at
it, just objectively,
right now, the race leans in
Hillary's direction.
And so I think there's two
different strategies
in play.
Right now, if the election were
held today,
he would win the presidency.
So, I think, first, she -- it's
the sort of
the political Hippocratic oath.
She wants to do no harm.
She wants to make sure there's
no mistakes
are made.
And I agree with Jim.
They want to employ and engage
their strategy
that is going to be the last 72
or 90 hours
of this race and turn out the
vote, because,
if she does that, she wins this
race.
For Donald Trump, he's probably
going to have
to take a few chances if he's
going to be
able to overcome that small
hurdle that exists
in this race, though a sturdy
hurdle that
exists in this race, and he has
to hope something
breaks in the course of this
race, then he
can immediately take advantage
of it in the
next 28 or 48 hours.
It's a much more difficult
situation for Donald
Trump today than it is for
Hillary Clinton.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Jim Messina,
for something
to break in the last -- we have
already seen
breaks over the course of the
last few weeks,
but what would it take to change
the course
of this election at this point?
JIM MESSINA: Well, I think a
couple things.
One, as we talked earlier,
turnout matters.
And if we have historic turnout
in white precincts,
like Matthew helped President
Bush do in 2004,
that could change the race.
There could be -- people make
mistakes.
Things happen.
World events happen.
Right before the Brexit vote,
there was an
internal terrorism incident in
the U.K. that
fundamentally changed the race.
So, you're not sure what's going
to happen.
But you have got to be ready for
whatever
is going to happen, but, more
importantly,
stick to your message.
Matthew's right.
She's got to turn her vote out
and she's got
stay very, very disciplined.
And I think she's running the
right kind of
campaign to do that.
Donald Trump is running a much
different campaign.
I don't think the word
discipline has ever
come to mind when you think of
him.
But he's at his best when he
kind of goes
straight at it.
And so I think he's going to try
to cause
a little stir and push hard
here.
And you saw him yesterday go
right after it.
And I think it's going to be a
wild and woolly
final four days here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Matthew Dowd, is
that what
you expect, that something --
that there is
going to be -- something is
going to be said
by Donald Trump or that's going
to come out
of someplace we don't expect
that could change
the trajectory at this point?
MATTHEW DOWD: Well, we
definitely know Donald
Trump will say things in this
that, as Jim
says, that are undisciplined
that would normally
rock any other campaign which he
has done
probably a hundred times in the
last 200 days.
I don't think it's going to be
that.
I think it's something we have
no idea about.
That's usually what happens, the
Comey letter
or the Comey report that
happened a week or
so ago, which adjusted this race
to Hillary
Clinton's disadvantage by about
two points,
though she still has a solid,
but small lead
in this.
But, I think, in the end, it is
going to come
down to employing the strategy
you need.
I don't think anything is going
to fundamentally
adjust this race.
One of the interesting things,
Judy, in this,
if Hillary Clinton wins this
race, she will
win it with the most diverse
coalition that
anybody's ever been elected by
in presidential
history.
She will have the most diverse
coalition that
anybody's ever -- even more
diverse actually
than Barack Obama in 2012 and
2008.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Jim Messina, you
wrote a column
for The New York Times yesterday
in which
you said you really dislike
national polls,
and you referred to something
you call the
golden report that you trusted
when Barack
Obama last won an election.
What exactly was that?
JIM MESSINA: Well, Judy, just to
correct you,
I said I hate public polls.
(LAUGHTER)
JIM MESSINA: And I think they're
the worst
things in the world, because
most of them
are absolutely wrong.
But, in the Obama 2012 campaign
and to this
day, we do 62,000 computer
simulations of
the election, to simulate every
possible variance,
turnout numbers, economy,
incidents that Matthew
was talking about, all of those
things.
And we really follow that much
more than public
polls.
I had a rule in the Obama
campaign: If you
looked at public polls, I would
fire you,
because it was a silly waste of
time.
People have got to stay focused.
And what the golden report
allows you to do
is look at the voters who really
mattered
and which of these states really
are up for
grabs, because, Judy, this is
not a national
race right now.
As Matt knows, we're in eight to
10 states
that are really going to decide
this election.
And you have 102 hours to affect
the outcome.
And so the one thing you can't
go get more
of is time.
And so each campaign has got to
be very structured
and disciplined in what they do.
Donald Trump, again using his
non-disciplined
campaign, doesn't believe in
data, hasn't
done any of those things.
He's just kind of making an
argument to the
country, whereas you see the
Clinton campaign
be very strategic in how they're
spending
their time.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Very quickly, Jim
Messina,
does Hillary Clinton have
something like that
right now?
JIM MESSINA: I think she's got a
better version.
I think her campaign manager,
Robby Mook,
has done a good job building it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Matthew
Dowd, does Donald
Trump have anything close?
MATTHEW DOWD: No, I don't -- the
huge advantage
in the Election Day is Hillary
Clinton's in
this.
Just one thing I will slightly
disagree with
Jim on.
I'm agnostic about public polls.
In the campaign that I did in
2004, George
Bush called me up on election
morning and
asked me what was going to
happen, and I said
he would win by two to three
points.
He won by 2.5 points in that
race.
That was based on all the things
Jim just
said.
But for viewers out there who
have not -- who
don't have access to the stuff
that we have
access in a campaign, here is
what I would
counsel.
I would counsel, look at a broad
average of
the national polls, and that
really tells
you what's going on yesterday.
Don't worry about the state
polls.
The state polls are lagging
indicators of
where this race is.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, we're
hearing it
from both of you.
And we are going to go back and
talk to you
again after the election.
Matthew Dowd, Jim Messina, great
to see both
of you.
MATTHEW DOWD: Sounds great.
JIM MESSINA: Thanks.
MATTHEW DOWD: Thanks, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meantime,
allegations of widespread
voter fraud are nothing new, but
they have
taken on a renewed intensity in
this campaign.
While there's virtually no
evidence for the
claims, Donald Trump and his
supporters insist
the voting process is rigged.
Our William Brangham takes a
look at those
accusations and how they're
being heard by
the accused in the battleground
state of Pennsylvania.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: This past
weekend in Allentown,
Pennsylvania, a group of Donald
Trump's supporters
staged a rally at a busy
intersection.
WOMAN: We're not going to take
it anymore!
CARROLL HAAS, Trump Supporter:
I'm here to
support Trump, and pray that
Hillary goes
to prison for all that she has
done.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: These voters
argue Trump
is exactly what the country
needs right now,
and they think the media isn't
treating him
fairly and is overlooking
Hillary Clinton's
flaws.
Many are also deeply suspicious
that the election
is somehow going to be stolen
from them.
LARRY NAUSBAUM, Trump Supporter:
I think the
machines are rigged.
I watched on YouTube how they
rig the machines,
where you vote Republican, and
it turns up
Democrat.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Trump has made
this same
charge repeatedly over several
months.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
We're in a rigged system, folks.
We're in a rigged system.
We're going to watch
Pennsylvania.
Go down to certain areas and
watch and study
and make sure other people don't
come in and
vote five times.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: There's no
evidence for
the kind of widespread
fraudulent voting that
Trump says is going on right
now.
But his supporters, people like
Tom Carroll,
say if you don't believe rigged
voting occurs,
just look at Philadelphia.
TOM CARROLL, Trump Supporter: It
is absolutely
rigged.
Philadelphia is a perfect
example.
You had wards in 2012 that had
more than 100
percent turnout-
LARRY NAUSBAUM: In Philadelphia,
there were
17 districts where there were
100 percent
Obama votes, which is
statistically impossible.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: This is
exhibit A for their
case.
In the 2012 presidential
election between
President Obama and Governor
Romney, Obama
won Pennsylvania, getting almost
three million
votes, compared to Romney's 2.6
million.
But in Philadelphia, in these 59
divisions,
known as precincts in most
places, not one
single vote was recorded for
Mitt Romney,
not one.
Obama received 100 percent of
the presidential
votes.
AL SCHMIDT, Philadelphia
Election Commissioner:
I was struck the same way that
anyone else
was in wondering, how could this
possibly
occur?
So, this is the voting system
that we have
in Philadelphia.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Al Schmidt is
on the commission
that runs and oversees elections
in Philadelphia.
He's the only Republican on the
three-person
panel.
After that election, he
investigated: Was
it possible that no one in those
divisions
voted for Mitt Romney?
AL SCHMIDT: I ran around the
city to all these
different precincts to look at,
how could
this possibly occur?
We were chasing down members of
the minority
party and asking, did you in
fact cast your
vote this way or that way?
You don't have to tell us, but
we're looking
into this.
And we didn't find a single one.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, you went
around those
areas trying to find Romney
voters, and you
couldn't find any?
AL SCHMIDT: Correct.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Schmidt says
these particular
precincts are very small,
they're almost all
black, and President Obama
remains hugely
popular.
In fact, John McCain back in the
2008 presidential
race got less than 1 percent of
the vote in
these same areas.
So, you feel confident that the
fact that
there were no Romney votes
registered in those
particular areas is not evidence
that someone
somewhere was taking Romney
votes and throwing
them in the trash?
AL SCHMIDT: Correct.
And even if you set aside
everything I just
said about the fact that you
couldn't find
anyone who voted for him, that
the precincts
are very small, so the voting --
the electorate
there is very similar, you can't
subtract
votes from our voting machines,
period.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: You just can't
do it?
AL SCHMIDT: You can't.
SEAN HANNITY, FOX News: In
inner-city Philadelphia,
Mitt Romney did not get a single
vote.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: But, still,
that's not how
the story is perceived among
Trump's supporters
and certain parts of the media.
FOX News has cited
Philadelphia's 2012 results
as clear evidence of fraud
numerous times,
same with other popular
conservative Web sites
like Breitbart, Infowars, The
Blaze.
They all imply votes were
stolen.
AUDREY STREIN, Trump Supporter:
Hopefully,
he can count on your vote this
November.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Trump
supporter Audrey Strein
is one of those concerned about
fraud.
One poll showed that 49 percent
of Trump supporters
are not confident the vote will
be counted
accurately, compared to just 18
percent of
Clinton supporters.
AUDREY STREIN: If we outnumber
and get people,
everybody to come out and vote,
we can overcome
any of the anticipated voter
fraud.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: When she's not
running her
roofing company, this mother of
three, wearing
her "Adorable Deplorable"
T-shirt, tries to
persuade undecided voters.
She says voting fraud won't be a
problem in
her small town of Jamison,
Pennsylvania, but
she's suspicious about urban
areas like Philadelphia.
AUDREY STREIN: In the cities,
you are going
to have more Democrat majority.
And when you have a dominant
party, there's
no one watching the henhouse.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: To understand
how accusations
of possible fraud are being
heard, we talked
with voters in West
Philadelphia, the same
place where Romney received zero
votes four
years ago.
Many saw these accusations as an
attempt at
voter suppression.
MANUEL GLENN, Philadelphia:
There is an individual
in this race who wants to make
the process
so dirty, that wants to turn
people off from
the process, that they won't
come out and
vote.
And he feels that that's his
path to victory,
because his voters are so fired
up, they're
going to come out regardless,
rain, sleet,
snow, hell, hell or high water,
return of
Jesus, they're going to vote.
ALFRED HAZLY, Philadelphia: It
goes back to
World War II, and Joseph
Goebbels, and Hitler
in the '30s: Tell the biggest
lie you can,
as loud as you can, for as long
as you can,
and, eventually, someone will
start to believe
it.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Greg Spearman
is the Democratic
ward leader for this area.
He was here in 2012, and he will
be here again
next week on Election Day.
I asked him about the racial
undertones of
these accusations.
It's usually white Republicans
saying this
about minority voting districts.
GREG SPEARMAN, West Philadelphia
Ward Leader:
Sure.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Do you think
race has anything
to do with the...
GREG SPEARMAN: Sure.
Race has something to do with
most things
in America.
I think that's the fire that
Trump is stoking.
His buzzwords are targeted for
that mind-set.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: David
Thornburgh is president
and CEO of the Committee of
Seventy, a group
in Philadelphia dedicated to
ensuring clean
and fair elections.
DAVID THORNBURGH, President and
CEO, Committee
of Seventy: And what we really
have in terms
of our sense of election fraud
is a series
of anecdotes.
You add all those up, and it
doesn't constitute
the same kind of massive,
systemic fraud that
the Trump campaign is asserting
is out there.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Philadelphia
Elections Commissioner
and Republican Al Schmidt says
he has documented
isolated cases of voter fraud.
He wrote this report on examples
from the
2012 primary election.
Philadelphia indicted 10 people
for voter
fraud since the report was
published.
They amounted to a dozen votes
being improperly
cast across the city.
AL SCHMIDT: It's important to
recognize the
distinction between individual
cases of voter
fraud and allegations of
widespread, systematic
vote-rigging, and no one finding
out about
it, despite it changing the
outcome of the
presidential election.
That's pretty far-fetched.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The Clinton
and Trump campaigns
say they will do everything to
ensure the
legitimacy of this election,
both nationwide
and in this critical
battleground state.
Lawyers and poll monitors from
both parties
will be out in full force next
Tuesday.
But for black voters here in
Philadelphia,
the accusation that they have
committed fraud
and will do so again is
painfully familiar.
JAMIE FLETCHER, Philadelphia:
Being a minority,
you expect it.
It is just what comes -- it just
comes with
skin color and where you live,
so that's just
what it is.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For the "PBS
NewsHour,"
I'm William Brangham in
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The fate of the
Affordable
Care Act is at stake in
Tuesday's election.
More than 20 million people have
gained coverage
through the health insurance
reform law.
But, as special correspondent
Sarah Varney
reports, large gaps still exist.
Our story, produced in
collaboration with
our partner Kaiser Health News,
begins in
Grundy, Virginia, at a clinic
run by a nonprofit
called Remote Area Medical.
It's a program that's still
surprisingly necessary
in 2016.
SARAH VARNEY: Sandra Cook got in
line midday
on a recent Friday for dental
care that she
wouldn't receive until the next
morning.
Hundreds more like her showed up
at Riverview
Elementary and Middle School in
Grundy, Virginia,
just as volunteers were arriving
by the hundreds
to turn the school into a
makeshift clinic.
Many people here in this
southwestern corner
of Virginia struggle to pay for
everyday needs.
And that includes basic health
care.
SANDRA COOK, Virginia: There's a
lot of poverty
in this area, and the coal
mines, they went
down, and the jobs have gotten
really bad.
MATT KEENE, Virginia: A lot of
people ain't
got no insurance or no income,
and this is
the only place they can come to.
SARAH VARNEY: Just next to the
line, Trey
Justice and his girlfriend set
up a tent,
after walking for five hours to
get here.
TREY JUSTICE, Virginia: My teeth
and my eyes
are really bad.
I got ran over about four year
ago.
Don't have no doctors, no
insurance.
SARAH VARNEY: Six years after
the passage
of the Affordable Care Act, and
despite 20
million more Americans gaining
health insurance,
considerable gaps in health care
remain.
The decision by states like
Virginia not to
expand Medicaid and the lack of
dental and
vision coverage even for those
with insurance
has meant that scenes like this
are still
playing out.
STAN BROCK, Founder, Remote Area
Medical:
If you're here to see the
dentist, please
raise your hand.
SARAH VARNEY: The next morning,
the sun had
yet to rise when Stan Brock
called out the
first numbers.
STAN BROCK: We're going to bring
you in 20
at a time and there's no reason
to rush, OK?
Plenty of time.
SARAH VARNEY: Brock founded
Remote Area Medical
in 1985 to bring health care to
people in
developing countries.
But he expanded the project to
the U.S. when
he realized the depth of the
need here.
Over the weekend, nearly 1,000
teeth will
be pulled, some 400 pairs of
eyeglasses made,
and more than one million
dollars in health
care services delivered.
Gary Owens was one of those
workers laid off
from the coal mines.
At 55, he's uninsured.
He tells the volunteer doctor
that his hands
feel numb, his feet burn and old
job injuries
plague him.
GARY OWENS, Virginia: I hurt.
I mean, I hurt.
It's like somebody with my body.
It don't feel right, or maybe
it's not right.
SARAH VARNEY: Owens has paid out
of pocket
in the past for health care, but
he's been
unable to afford the blood tests
to figure
out what's wrong with him.
The doctors here worry the
reason he recently
lost 25 pounds is that he might
have cancer.
If Owens lived just 15 miles
away, in Kentucky
or West Virginia, he'd be
covered.
State lines are now often the
difference between
poor adults having health
insurance or not.
After Kentucky expanded Medicaid
under the
Affordable Care Act, the
percentage of uninsured
poor adults dropped from 40
percent to 23
percent in one year.
But, in Virginia, which hasn't
expanded Medicaid,
many low-income adults are still
left to rely
on charity care, with Remote
Area Medical
being the most visible and
dramatic.
Studies have found that people
in Medicaid
expansion states are more likely
to have a
regular doctor, get vaccinated
and receive
treatment for chronic diseases.
But in states like Virginia,
uninsured poor
adults often must turn to the
emergency room
when they need help.
Back at the school, volunteer
nurse Doreen
Facey-Biggs says the choices
people face seem
at odds with America's standing
in the world.
DOREEN FACEY-BIGGS, Volunteer
Nurse: I'm from
Jamaica.
I have been in this country a
long time, but
I'm still amazed at the
differences and the
disparities in health care
services, that,
in this rich country, this First
World country,
so many people have no
insurance.
SARAH VARNEY: That's the case
for James Love.
He lives along a mountain road
with his wife,
tending to his animals and
working multiple
jobs to pay the bills.
No one in the family has health
coverage.
And they rely on the Remote Area
Medical events
each year for nearly all of
their dental and
vision care.
Love has to make tough choices
when it comes
to paying for medications.
JAMES LOVE, Virginia: You choose
what you
can afford.
And you not only have to do it
for you, your
wife, your children, sometimes
your grandparents,
your parents.
SARAH VARNEY: The dismal health
conditions
here are widespread.
Diabetes, heart disease and
stroke are endemic,
and smoking and cancer deaths
far exceed national
levels.
But the most common complaint is
painful,
rotting teeth.
Matt Keene had six teeth pulled
at last year's
free clinic, and he's back to
have another
dozen removed.
At 24 years old, he feels a
sharp pain when
he eats or drinks.
Stan Brock says his pop-up
clinics around
the country continue to overflow
because the
Affordable Care Act and public
insurance programs
don't cover dentistry.
STAN BROCK: They need to fix
that.
It was a step in the right
direction, but
it missed out on the thing that
really leads
to a lot of problems.
Heart disease, diabetes, and so
on all emanate
from things like bad teeth.
SARAH VARNEY: But it's not just
insurance.
Poor health habits and poverty
are big factors,
too, says Dr. Terry Dickinson,
head of the
Virginia Dental Association and
a longtime
volunteer.
DR.
TERRY DICKINSON, Executive
Director, Virginia
Dental Association: The most
product that
they can buy is usually the
worse for you.
It's the highly processed foods.
That's the highly sugared
drinks.
All of those things are not good
for you either
health-wise or dental-wise.
So it's this kind of
conglomeration of things
that are going around in their
lives, that
it makes it very difficult to
break into that
cycle, because it's economic,
it's culture,
it's everything.
SARAH VARNEY: Young people like
Jesse Charles
are an example of why that cycle
is hard to
break.
He has no job, no health
insurance.
He went to elementary school
here and started
smoking when he was 11.
He's 21 now and fairly healthy,
but he's taking
part in a rite of passage,
getting his tooth
pulled at a Remote Area Medical
event.
The dentist warned him that
smoking after
dental surgery is dangerous,
but, on the way
home, he quickly reaches for a
cigarette.
JESSE CHARLES, Virginia: Yes,
it's starting
to hurt a little bit.
They said -- it's smoking.
SARAH VARNEY: Back at his aunt's
house, Charles
is worn down after the long day.
His family has been roiled by
the recent deaths
of his mother and uncle, and he
wishes he
had followed their advice.
JESSE CHARLES: They told me to
take care of
my teeth.
And it's one thing I didn't take
care of.
I never did listen.
SARAH VARNEY: With few jobs
available in Grundy,
he's thought about moving to a
larger town
60 miles away, where he might
have more control
over his future.
Terry Dickinson says stories
like this haunt
him, that somehow the whole
weekend is just
a stop gap.
DR.
TERRY DICKINSON: I think about
that a lot
on the way home.
I'm thinking, so what did we do?
Because our goal is to stop the
cycle, is
to do something that's
sustainable.
But we're the Band-Aid.
We're the safety net until that
happens.
SARAH VARNEY: When the
volunteers leave town
on Sunday, it's up to free
clinics like the
Health Wagon in nearby Wise,
Virginia, to
try to scrape together follow-up
care.
DR.
PAULA HILL MEADE, Clinical
Director, Health
Wagon: Now, if you will take a
deep breath
every time I touch you.
WOMAN: OK.
SARAH VARNEY: Paula Hill Meade,
a nurse practitioner,
is the Health Wagon's clinical
director.
DR.
PAULA HILL MEADE: No one cares
that people
like me are here begging and
saying, I need
somebody to see this patient.
Will you please see her?
She needs a breast biopsy.
Can I get her seen?
A lot of times, it's just, no.
Can she pay this much up front?
Well, no, she can't.
SARAH VARNEY: She's angry that
health care
has become so political.
DR.
PAULA HILL MEADE: It really
makes you mad
and it makes you infuriated to
see that they're
up here using this as a
political game.
It's sickening to think that
you're dealing
with people's lives like that.
SARAH VARNEY: But the bleak
truth in Central
Appalachia is that many here
people are used
to waiting, and they expect
little to change
before the Remote Area Medical
event comes
back to town next year, once
again bringing
its caravan of volunteers and
promises of
momentary relief.
For the "PBS NewsHour" and
Kaiser Health News,
I'm Sarah Varney in Grundy,
Virginia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to the
analysis of Shields
and Brooks.
That's syndicated columnist Mark
Shields and
New York Times columnist David
Brooks.
So, gentlemen, this is the last
time I get
to ask you this on a Friday.
Mark, how does this race look?
MARK SHIELDS: It looks terrific.
I mean, it really is.
And I just want it to keep
going.
I don't want it to end.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: I wish it was like
baseball.
We could go into extra innings.
No, I don't think there is any
question the
whole temperature, the whole
atmosphere of
the race changed over the last
eight days,
since last we were together,
when -- with
the Comey announcement of the
FBI investigation.
I think what had been sort of an
assumed Clinton
victory, and Democrats taking
over the Senate,
I think it was stopped in its
tracks.
And while I still think she is
the favorite,
and is the favorite, there is
certainly a
lot more doubt about the Senate
today.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David.
DAVID BROOKS: Well, I think
she's the favorite.
I have a sense that it would
have happened
anyway and that, at the end of
the day, people
were going to come home to who
they were.
And what's depressed me,
frankly, most about
this race is, we went into this
country a
divided nation, and now the
chasms are just
solidified, so divided along
race, divided
along gender, urban/rural,
college-educated/non-college-edu
cated.
We can go down the list.
And, basically, less educated or
high school-educated
whites are going to Trump.
It doesn't matter what the guy
does.
And college-educated going to
Clinton.
Everyone is dividing based on
demographic
categories.
And, sometimes, you get the
sense that the
campaign barely matters.
People are just going with their
gene pool
and whatever it is.
And that is one of the more
depressing aspects
of this race for me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, and you say
it almost
doesn't matter what they say.
But they're going out, Mark, on
-- with some
pretty rough language.
She continues to say he's
unacceptable, he
doesn't have the character to be
president.
He is saying -- continues saying
she needs
to be in prison.
Somebody at one of his rallies
today said,
"Execute her."
We're watching as low as it can
get, aren't
we?
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
Well, I think there's no
question Clinton
-- I'm not sure David's right.
He's 97 percent right about 48
percent of
the time.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: But, no -- but on
whether it
would have narrowed.
I think there was a sense that
she had the
possibility of a decisive
victory.
And I think she, at that point,
wanted, the
Clinton campaign wanted to end
it on upbeat
and more positive.
The problem is, you have two
candidates, Judy,
we have said time and again, are
personally
unfavorable.
So, the spotlight is unkind to
each, whoever's
in that spotlight.
And when Donald Trump was in the
spotlight,
losing three debates to Hillary
Clinton, and
the "Access Hollywood" tape, it
hurt him and
helped her.
And what happened is, that
changed and sort
of changed her strategy.
She was trying to shift the
spotlight back
to him, I think inelegantly and
ineffectively,
quite frankly, in the last week
by bringing
out the former Miss Universe and
trying to
do that.
The best closer, quite honestly,
is Barack
Obama.
He's the best closer since
Dennis Eckersley
or Mariano Rivera.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: He's just a -- he
really knows
how to close.
If you want to see somebody do
it well, just
watch Barack Obama.
He makes a far better case for
her than she
makes for herself.
Donald Trump is sounding the
same theme he
has sounded since May or June of
2015.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
And, well, it's a campaign of
hate.
Obama is a campaign of at least
hope.
At least his first campaign was.
This is just a campaign of hate.
And, you know, people who don't
like Trump
really don't like Trump.
And I guess I'm among them.
And we just saw in our report
about the Trump
voters in Pennsylvania.
Did you see -- when they were
shouting on
the road, did you see anything
nice about
Trump?
No.
Send Clinton to jail.
And so it's just -- what was it?
There was a Burt Lancaster movie
where he
had love and hate tattooed on
his hands.
And there's just a -- we're in a
psychosis
of what they call negative
polarization, where
nobody likes their side, but
they really hate
the other side.
And it feels like it's just
building and building.
And so we have got this cycle.
And I don't know if it pops on
Election Day.
I hope so.
But the idea that Clinton is
finishing this
campaign bringing Miss America
or the Miss
Universe to the rallies just
seems wrong to
me.
I do think she should have
pivoted and say,
I am change, I am change,
because people do
want some change.
And to end on this negative
note, I think
especially for her -- he has no
choice -- that's
his whole repertoire.
I think, for her, I think it's a
very questionable
way to end the campaign.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, Mark,
doesn't that say
that her campaign is really
concerned here?
MARK SHIELDS: Sure.
And, Judy, Hillary Clinton is in
Detroit,
Michigan, the Friday before the
election.
Michigan is one of the 18 states
and the District
of Columbia that are the blue
wall, that have
voted Democratic for six
consecutive presidential
elections that are constituting
the 242 of
the 270 electoral votes that the
Democrats
start with.
So, no, there's a concern.
You can tell more from than
polls -- from
polls -- by the candidates'
schedules, and
where they're spending time and
resources.
So, no, I think there is a real,
real concern.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
That sort of goes back to my
point about demographics.
Why is she in Michigan?
Because Michigan was -- we all
thought it
would be Florida, South
Carolina, Nevada,
all the -- New Hampshire, the
states we have
been talking about.
But there are a lot of white
people in Wisconsin
and Michigan.
And so there's another route
that he has in
ways we didn't expect, because
of the way
the demographics are just
driving this election
much more than ideology was in
years past.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I hear people
saying, don't
the American people deserve a
better election
than this?
Couldn't somebody have found a
way, Mark,
for the candidates to talk about
something
uplifting, or was it always
going to come
down to this?
MARK SHIELDS: Boy, I don't know.
I mean, you have two candidates
who were highly
unfavorable.
And the idea of somehow
convincing people
that their perceptions, in some
cases long-held,
were inaccurate or incomplete,
the more appealing
route, quite frankly, in the
campaign was
to try and hit the other fellow
over the head.
David is right.
It would be a negative mandate.
And one other point David makes
that is a
good one, and it's good to
recall historically,
Theodore White wrote that
America is Republican
until 5:00 or 6:00 at night.
And that's when working people
and their families
got off work, had supper, and if
America is
going to vote -- be Democratic,
it's going
to happen between 5:30 and 8:00
at night.
That has been totally turned on
its ear.
The working-class, blue-collar,
non-college-educated
base of the Democratic Party is
the base of
Donald Trump's campaign this
year.
And the Democrats are now an
upscale party.
So, each party, just its message
is totally
out of kilter.
The Democrats have an economic
message that
is directed at people at the
lower end.
That has been their cornerstone.
The Republicans has been more
upscale.
Now the Republicans have a very
low-scale,
by economic standards, base.
Donald Trump has.
And it's just total conflict,
Judy.
And I think it became easier,
quite frankly,
just to hit the guy over the
head than to
try and make the positive case.
DAVID BROOKS: I would say some
of it was contingent
on Donald Trump being Donald
Trump and changing
the rules of the way we talk to
each other.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
DAVID BROOKS: Some of that was
contingent.
But a lot of it is baked
structurally into
our society.
And so we had a lot of good
things over the
years that were really good for
America.
I think globalization has been
really good
for America.
I think the influx of immigrants
has been
really good for America.
Feminism has been really good
for America.
But there are a lot of people
who used to
be up in society, because of
those three good
things, are now down, a lot of
high school-educated
white guys.
And they have been displaced.
And shame on us for not paying
attention to
that and helping them out.
And, therefore, as a result,
what happened
was, they were alienated, they
got super cynical,
because they really were being
shafted.
And so they react in an angry
way.
Well, that's not a shock, given
the last 30
or 50 years of American history.
And so, for us going forward,
it's to not
reverse the dynamism of American
society and
the diversity.
It's to pay attention to the
people who are
being ruined by it, and so this
doesn't happen
again.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it means
there is a lot
of sorting out to do after this
election.
I want to ask you both about the
Supreme Court.
Mark, we have heard from
Republican senators
in the last few weeks that
they're, no matter
-- if Hillary Clinton is elected
-- this is
an if -- no matter who she puts
forward, they're
going to make sure that she
doesn't get to
fill that last -- that ninth
seat on the court.
How are we to think about the
Supreme Court
anymore?
We have now gone the better part
of this year,
since Justice Scalia's death,
President Obama's
nominee can't get through.
Has this become a litmus test of
the litmus
test?
MARK SHIELDS: Judy, in a year of
irresponsibility,
this is a new depth of
irresponsibility.
To say that the constitutional
mandate of
a national election, where
millions of Americans
vote and pick a new president,
that that president
is -- what that president does,
and under
the Constitution, of nominating
judges and
justices, is somehow moot, and
I'm not going
to pay any attention to it,
that's unacceptable.
It really is.
It's beyond irresponsible.
It's beyond reckless.
It is really -- I think it's
criminal.
I basically do.
And anybody who holds that
position, I think
it's self-disqualifying for any
public office.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We heard it from
John McCain.
And I guess, this week, there
was a comment
from Richard Burr, the senator
from North
Carolina, and others.
MARK SHIELDS: I think Senator
Cruz has put
on -- I think Senator McCain did
walk it back,
but you're right.
He did say it on radio.
DAVID BROOKS: My views about
this are like
Mark's, only stronger.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: I think it's in
the Constitution.
And we not only have rules in
the Constitution
the way it should work.
The president should be able to
nominate justices.
But we have an etiquette around
the Constitution.
And what's happened in America
is, that etiquette
has been acidified away.
And I hate the nuclear option of
going for
50 votes in the Senate.
But if they behave this way,
then I think
the Democrats might be justified
and go to
the nuclear option, because we
actually have
to have a government.
We have to have people confirmed
and put into
office.
And -- but it's the degradation
of the way
our government is supposed to
run.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I didn't give you
all any warning
about this, but I want to ask it
in the last
minute or so that we have left.
What do you say to the American
people at
this point about the choice
they're making,
about how much difference it
makes?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, it does.
We know presidents make choices.
We know -- we have no idea
what's going to
come up on a crisis over the
next four years,
unexpected, internationally,
domestically.
And who that president is, the
judgment, the
intelligence, the confidence
that that president
has can very well determine
whether we survive,
let alone prosper, as a people.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
It's a job.
It's a job that involves some
patience, a
tolerance for boredom, the
ability to work
friendly with other people, to
herd majorities.
It's a job.
And I can't say who I'm going to
vote for,
but one person is clearly
disqualified for
that job.
And I can't mention his name.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: David Brooks,
Mark Shields,
we will see you on election
night.
And, by the way, Mark and David
will be back
here, along with other guests,
on election
night for our special coverage.
It starts at 8:00 p.m. Eastern,
and we want
you to join us, too.
Finally tonight: A new movie
opening this
weekend is being widely hailed
for its nuanced
storytelling about sexual
identity, race and
upbringing.
Jeffrey Brown spoke with the
filmmakers of
"Moonlight."
JEFFREY BROWN: It's a life we
don't often
see portrayed in commercial
films, a coming-of-age
tale of love and anguish, a
movie that's garnered
critical acclaim for the story
it tells and
the beauty and power of its
telling.
In "Moonlight," we watch Chiron
growing up
in the Liberty City neighborhood
of Miami
as the crack epidemic is taking
hold in the
1980s.
He is young, poor, black, and
coming to terms
with being gay, quietly and
painfully wrestling
with these identities.
The story is based on the life
of Tarell Alvin
McCraney, who first wrote it as
a play and
then the screenplay for the new
film.
TARELL ALVIN MCCRANEY,
Screenwriter, "Moonlight":
It's a story that I still feel
like I have
to tell, but also that I have to
explore and
to understand.
I mean, it's a story rooted in
events in my
own life that I'm trying to make
sense of
and make sense of the world out
of.
And I think, for me, I always am
interested
in trying to get a group of
people to have
the same conversation.
BARRY JENKINS, Director,
"Moonlight": So,
Tarell and I grew up blocks from
one another.
JEFFREY BROWN: Director Barry
Jenkins, who
also grew up poor in Liberty
City at the same
time, and with a mother fighting
addiction,
presents the story in three
separate acts,
using three different actors to
play Chiron.
At the new Museum of African
American History
and Culture, where the film was
recently screened,
he told me he purposely kept the
actors from
watching one another.
BARRY JENKINS: One of the themes
of the film
for me is about the way society
is shaping
these young men from our
communities, through
positive reinforcement, negative
reinforcement.
This is what masculinity looks
like.
This is what it sounds like.
And so much time passes between
each story
that I feel like the world has
shaped this
character into a different
person.
So, I wanted to cast different
people to play
the same person, and I wanted
them to be different.
JEFFREY BROWN: We watch Chiron
grow through
high school, tormented by
bullies and his
own insecurities, living with a
mother, played
by Naomie Harris, who sinks more
and more
into addiction.
NAOMIE HARRIS, Actress: What's
wrong?
ACTOR: Nothing.
JEFFREY BROWN: This is a young
man who speaks
more loudly in his looks and
silences than
in words.
BARRY JENKINS: The power of
cinema is that
we get to watch people, you
know?
And we get to watch people,
like, in close-up.
And so, if there's a scene on
the stage, the
audience can't get right in an
actor's eyes.
But in cinema, they can.
And I think, because of that,
because of the
power of the feeling in a
person's eyes, you
know, they can be doing --
active.
They can be less active, and yet
revealing
so much more.
I think of "Moonlight," it's
like an iceberg
film.
You know the Hemingway phrase,
you know, 10
percent is above water, and 90
percent is
below?
We flip it upside-down.
You know, we want to show you
that 90 percent
below water, but it's moving
very, very slow.
You know, it's a patient film.
But the character is revealing
himself by
these terms and his expressions.
TREVANTE RHODES, Actor: What you
looking at
me like that for?
ACTOR: What, man?
Come on, you just drove down
here?
TREVANTE RHODES: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: The adult Chiron
is played
by Trevante Rhodes, a one-time
track and field
star at the University of Texas
who only found
his way into acting his senior
year.
TREVANTE RHODES: I think the
beauty of that
scene was Chiron, he didn't
know.
JEFFREY BROWN: An outgoing and
gregarious
man, he told me how he
approached playing
a character so different.
TREVANTE RHODES: So, for me, it
was really
just about walking around L.A.
with the three
weeks I had prior to filming
feeling as if
-- feeling as if I had a secret
to hide from
everyone?
JEFFREY BROWN: You were walking
around feeling
and getting into the character.
TREVANTE RHODES: Walking around
L.A., getting
in the character, walking
around, feeling
as if I had this secret, feeling
as if I connected
with someone.
They would be able to see
through me.
They would be able to see my
insecurities.
They would be able to see this
mask that I
was putting up.
They would be able to see all of
these things,
and they would take the power
away from me,
feeling as if I couldn't love
myself, because
Chiron had this self-hate.
And because of that, he couldn't
love others.
So, I feel that all of us really
relate to
Chiron in the sense that we all,
at some point,
are insecure about something in
our life,
you know?
And I'm someone who I try to
make sense of
everything, and I feel like
Chiron tends to
do the same thing, just in a
different way.
The context is a bit different.
NAOMIE HARRIS: And who is you?
MAHERSHALA ALI, Actor: Nobody.
JEFFREY BROWN: Another
compelling character
is Juan, played by Mahershala
Ali, a drug
dealer stepping in as a father
figure to the
young Chiron.
MAHERSHALA ALI: Some boys chased
him in the
cut.
He's scared more than anything.
JEFFREY BROWN: Juan was based on
someone McCraney
knew as a child.
TARELL ALVIN MCCRANEY: It often
pains me to
know that people sort of see
him, and go,
oh, that's unusual.
When I think -- when I think
back over my
life, I think, oh, but there
have been many
times I have run into many
people like him
who are reflections of him in my
mind.
And I hear other people go, no,
I had a person
in my life like that, too.
So, I keep thinking, well, what
are we doing?
Why are we silencing that story?
Why -- what is happening to us
that we're
not seeing him more often?
JEFFREY BROWN: Do you feel this
is a film
that could have been made five
years ago,
10 years ago?
BARRY JENKINS: I mean, the one
thing I can
stand up on is, I couldn't have
made it five
years ago or 10 years ago.
I don't think I was
intellectually or emotionally
capable at that point.
I mean, he had written the
piece.
But I don't know how many people
you had shared
it with.
TARELL ALVIN MCCRANEY: I'm
shaking my head
because I had it 10 years ago,
and it didn't
get made.
BARRY JENKINS: I do think that,
right now,
there's a time in this country
when I think
people, they want to see beyond
the barriers
of their own experience, you
know?
And I think that this country is
a place where
many voices are being sought.
I think the voice of this
character is one
in particular that people
haven't heard very
often.
And they're curious.
And then they go and they see
the film, and
they go, that voice is kind of
similar to
mine.
I kind of relate to this guy,
even though
I don't want to sit next to him
on the subway.
Maybe I will next time.
TARELL ALVIN MCCRANEY: And now I
think we're
in a moment where everyone has
to understand
that authenticity is key,
because, when you
come to the table truthfully,
then we can
kind of -- we see that there's
actually -- we
illuminate that there's actually
more room
for voices, rather than that
just one voice
that we heard previous.
JEFFREY BROWN: "Moonlight" is
opening around
the country this weekend.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Jeffrey Brown.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Later tonight on
"Washington
Week": a roundtable discussion,
as Donald
Trump and Hillary Clinton make
their final
appeal to voters.
And we will be back right here
on election
eve Monday with reports from the
campaign
trail.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
Have a great weekend.
I'm Judy Woodruff.